- 3/2/24
Soon I would like to run the transformers rpg so I'm making a character builder app, but first I must familize myself with winfomrs and the like. Today we explored the grids and things
the first page should be able to have a dropbar where you select yoursystem and build accordinlying
todo - add drobbox, with games, each game will have static buttons to select expansions and whatnot, also make it so that if one game is selected others can not be because I'm
sure people will try to break that.

-3/3/26
added framework for skeleton of model for transformerscharacterclass, tomorrow we will look at the book and come up with the formulas for getting the dervived stats and the like

-3/4 Ok today was fun so I had to think about how many objects to layer into each other and came to appreicate the human brain, for the actual character class I'll have to have final stat that can be
reffernced that adds all the priors. but yeah the data flow is Character->orign->chasssis->mode -> stat
likewise To factor roles and level ups I made a dictionary that will have all the values for level ups and perks so I need to make a fuction for leveling up anyways tomorrow well make more 
pages and begin tha actual model bonding hopefully/

-3/5 Added page for transformers data slection will need to add a name for the stackbox so that it can loop and add the appropriate jsons with the tag feature, will need to also make a rerout from main page to this one.

-3/8 flow should be game slect=> expansions=> Origin/ alliegence => Influences => Stats => Perks => Weapons
Update added orgin page basics got introduced to a new type of box the expandable which will let me show data which will be nice for the classes, messed aroudn with grid and margin and am slowly learning how to lay things out
added navigation and learned that a window shouldn't have stuff so tomorrow we will add a start page to get rid of artifcats from window, finish origin page, consider jsons etc.

3-10
worked on jsons its just typing text nothing too fancy will need to put all the jsons in a json for refference when done or some on load stuff need to study them more also need to keep in mind focuses 
for levels when revelant. anyways good day

3-12 Fixed issues with window percisting by adding startpage and the nmessed around with jsons but Skipped to far ahead so I can't navigate to roles yet, can't see data to check if it works
	made role page, to do acually do orign and then do flow as intented, fixed problem when slections are null on starpage.

3-13 
Nothing crazy or spectacual just making jsons for core tf origins

3-14
Big day as it is the start of my vaction from both jobs, Alright to day we finihsed the json and bounded it to the xaml page, ran into a snag with names not making up, had to directly make a path to the json as well.
New errors, names not populating, sub objects not populating such as botmode health, or movement etc. so we will fix that tommorrow ya!

3-15
Issue was with names spellchecked the json now all is working! whoo hoo. Added a characterstate thing to make sure data can persist between pages and a way to assign that to the character
tomorrow make proceed for next page and also maybe add expansions.

-little more work now that I'm on vaction, added a Influences page must make json for it, made navigation property and check to make sure an orgin is slected


3-16
lazy day made the influences models and json, as well as hang-ups model and json. Then made a model to track expansion state.
To do make sure character has both influences and json model inside. Likewise make page for influnecs with data binding and all that.


3-17
Tecnically worked into the next day built xaml page with databind from jsosns. next need logic to check that influences hang up boxes are even and then I can progress forward and save them to char session.

finsihed up logic and navigation for influences and json, fixed typos so that code works started work on roles , decided to put all in a json but divide by expansion (ofc), made new modes to 
allocate levles too and perks whoo hoo, up next continue the json, and rewrite old json data to match new scheme.

3-19 Made changes to json need to add feilds for training cybertonian Perk, equaliment traing and and qualifications, and focus()

3-20
boring and simple day just working on the Role jsons, lots text lots of things to consider when choices are made.

3-22 
Forgot to write yesterday more jsons plan to finish the roles today and start the xaml page. Note to self qulaifcaiotns would be better as an enum.


3-23
fixed up typos for role json, found error in fluence binidng fixed binding name, and moved to roles button, this somehow broke the page so half the data won't load, started putting in methods to impliment a slide for seeing roles we'll see how it works 
I fix the hangups now! yay!

fixed json for real this time Carosol added but is unresponsive and has no animation, needs visual cues may also need to switch to just arrows with an on click effect

3-26 
had minor break menatlly with jobs returning, thought about carsol hated the swipe don't need to change logic but instead activations add two buttons on bottom with a ONclick to go previous or next!

3-27

Got off my lazy streak added buttons need to reado data binding to show the levles and have them have expandables also add radio button for selection and need to save to character state

3-29
Slowling down in coding which is not fun to see. Learned definitavely today about itemscontrol collections and data template, basically when you have list you got to include those for each entry found out about 
style to modify when values are null may add alter may say fuck it. learned about {0} to plug in bound data, very cool. Added the role page need to make role selections feel like binding it on countinue.

Qualifcations and training not showing up, also need to add scroller

-Fixed issue was using itemControl with singles just use dataContext for objects not part of a list! cool next add scroll bar

Edit Added scrolbar and added my dev shortcut thank god, need to figure out how to not show data if null will get messy fast I'm sure, anyways minor progress is a win

- made a structed grid but cuts data off might have to make a viewModel and slective command to make it show that only the slected level is in the view, fixed issue with expander to show level with header
used itempanel template insteaed.

3-30 

Tried to fuck around changing view and state and etc wasted 3 hours accomplished nothing and learned to restore to an old git verison whoo hoo

Got overmyself and did actual work though minor added, button to proceed to general perks, checks if you want the role then naviagtes, will not run in dev mode which is fine.

BIG REMINDER STILL NEED TO CHANGE STYLE FOR WHEN DATA is NULL in Levels Also need vertical slidebar!

3-31 
Had to step back and today will just be a planning day due to work overload irl. Next is not perks next is Scores and skill allocation

-Need a pointbank variable which will be equal to Base plus+ Role+ Chasis, need a specialized skill pool that is tied to how many points are gained so check role for that comparision.
-Added layout found out you can nest column and row definitions thank goodnes. 

4-3 
Began tables for scores and essence learned the importance of dataContext

-edit for tomorrow things are getting messy fast add view models for skill and score page! 
whoo who

4-4 
breakthrough day startedviewmodel but instead need to make skills and Stats as an object with the logic and then just bring them over.

4-5 

Note to self I slow down when learning something new made generic model for sklls and learning about the properties of get and set and how it relates to privacy settings scope in C#

4-6/7

late programming night and bad day made models and methods for skill and scores need logic in viewmodel next but after thant we can cook and move on thank god haha. thought about responsibilites
and where to put checks etc. view model is where points bank will live etc.

4-12 Long break finished


Learn the importance of constructors to save me from hardcoding all the skills in the  viewmodel redified my view of viewmodel, where as before I was thinking of it as a page I needed to shift it being a 
model to tell me what parts are going to be part of a page like the pieces it needs to function.
added the scores and skills.

4-12 lazy-ish day had an interview woohoo, recursion bug with pointbank may need to start score page over , need public fields for name in skill and score, also need a constructor to hold the data like 
score name, coressponnding skill and, 

4-14

Added Commands instead of hardcored + and - need tolearn more abotu action commans I command relative source and the like, fix formating and also learn to change rows and things like that for when
it populates!

4-15

leanred relative source  is to travel back to where commands exist, likewise scores should have comands set equal to the methods as wprf can only use comands and not binding for methods.
To do put buttons in a stack pannel so they look good or something, also made grid.
also get rid of excetpions make a boolian can increase or not increse and if not increase show error message or something!

-fixed buttons by putting them in stackpannel and Changing orientation to vertical, need to mess around with margins but more importantly make buttons bigger and add spacing between 
elements in stack row!

4-18 
Learned Icommand can only take one parameter, boolians can apply logic, needed to fix buooleans shifted to show error message instead of crash becasue that's annoying on user side

-fix commands in viewmodel,
fix xaml

4-19

tried makeing a vm to use for Score and skill method is fucked beyond belief so not much I can do honestly can't think of what I tried or added beyond that, waste of a day I guess

try to find fix

possible fix stop trying to be fancy and get score by cheating and finding it through what the skill is, just pass the skill as it's own Icommand and save the headache, revist later

var score = Scores.First(s => s.CorrespondingSkills.Contains(skill));

8:22pm implamented change; it worked


- Todo: add booleian for effected by class and have that logic exectute via switch commands



4-20

set all skills
Big breakthrough started logic for class slections and the like to add higher level scores and started a swtichcase to allocate things properly

events need to be rased finish switch cases

4-22

added skills rather refomated so I can resue them after assinging for sklls and class etc

need to change retunrs on role thing into list to return and then formate them into a new object that retukrns a list of type skill tf

finsihed swith statment

4-23 

bad day can't focus need to make items controll boolean for visibility figure out selected skill etc
Idk sleep on it and think

4-24
we're going brainstorm for a bit

so how do I display the list for selecting key scores and skills
1) both list have inverse is visible is no visible
2) tabs to direct users to pick key scores based off class with radio button which allows them to alternate skills, is flexible and does not need restart
3) Intermediate page (this is bad don't do)

I think I will use two which will show it in an easier way

learn to take things slow the tab thing is a go

tomorrow lets put them in in a item control with a radiobox allowing mutiple inputs

4-25 made the tabs work
made th score allocation work,

made an is slected status tractker to bind skills skills however when items are unslected score remains and can not be set lower need method for reseting also keep in mind the refires.

4-26 

Fixed double allocation bug by having the logic subtract from score and turn off the key score mod,
made method to let all skills and scores be allocated, that's basially it lol

4-29

Aparently I took a 3 day break anyways
added character fluff page set levels to chose
name
description alleigence

todo Figure out how to bind images to radio buttons,
bind the data to its characater counterparts, 
-link fluff in character flow with navigate


5-3

I don't want to believe I've taken a massive break in coding so I'll check the git

anyways, finshed page for fluff ran app found out that the role thing doesn't work.So tha'ts the goal
added gen per page and final confiramation as well as focus page

- Edit fixed bug it was literally me moving to the wrong page lol. Navigated to right page.

Made class for General perks, focus, and made prequistes class to check if character meets general perk requirmenets

TOD: categorize General Perk effects to be able to apply them in some way

5-4

Started json for general perks and Focuses

TOD: method for applying stats should be done in character object

5-6

Finished json for general perks next is focuses then we'll put them to sheets!

5-7 
nothing crazy made object forcuses

need to make switch case to deterimne role to show subclasses

made json for Focuceses

5-8

just added to Focus json

5-15
I have been working this whole time just writing jsons doesn't matter much. Today made page Vm for Foccuses and logic for filtering subclasses. Made enum for Gernal perk types to later apply logic.

TODO, finish switch cases for Focuses, DONE
TODO, Finish Logic for adding General perk in character

5-16

Made the swtich case for focuses added objects to character class two list to display genreeal perks and focus ranks respectively,
as well as a subclass.

TODO: need to make page for focuces selection. and applying logic.
TODO, Finish Logic for adding General perk in character


5-19

Getting back into things after a break is a lesson in pain. Added the logic to make a list to get the data that needs to be shown on the page haven't really done the xmal yet
made an on property changed.

TODo:Write xaml

5-20 

First try at a xaml page since forever 400+ pages of json btw
fixed errosrs in json, go focus page to load but it's blank

figured out how to show data was forgetting initilize component. I stupid I guess. 

TOD): ADD NEX AND PREVIOUS buttons
TODO: figure out how to make radio box for stat options and the logic for that
assign stuff to current character model

5-21
Made buttons low action day, need to refactor so it doesn't sit on top of choices.
learned that you don't need methods in page if you have them on vm, in vm though if it does affect an specific object make it generic.

TODO: figure out how to make radio box for stat options and the logic for that
assign stuff to current character model

5-22

Minor day made proceed button and assigned subclass need to show text and stuff like that general perk stuff is next

5-23 

Added Linked skills based off of subclasses fixed pages layout
next is the Genral perks. and then we're done with all the nonsense.

Set level value with new things as well

NEED TO CHECK JSON FOR SPELLING MISTAKES BECAUSE I CAN NOT FIND SKILL WHEW HOO

5-25

spelling erros in json fixed, moved linkedscore skill increase to score increase and fixed bug
next can make general perk page. SO Close!!!

5-27 fixed errors in focus json, fixed errors (syntax) in gernal perks json, made geralperks virtual model, and made the logic for getting through the json by requirements

todo build page 

5-28 BIG DAY

Made Skeleton or GenerPerks xaml pae and pagination stuff for content view of the perks
TODo Make Acutal content control based of viewable slection etc whoo hoo

5-30

Made Next and previous started xaml for content control and binding made ICommands
Problem getting the perk count fix it returns null or some shit it crashes

TODO FIX gernal perk count.

5-31

Too much shit, messed around with xaml changed from content control to binding.
made formula for settin general perk count in character tf session
set data cntext in GernalPerksTF because I forogt
. now the deserilzaer for the json isn't working

Fix json deserizlier in GenralPerksVMTF

edit issue was traling commas
edit 2 name field was messed up
more imporntanly enums in jsons need to be convereted or it will always throw errors

TODO, make the General perk page look nice give it formatting or a scroller

6-1

just added the total perks to pick thing, started apply perks logic  need add a dictiornary maybe for what to do?

TODO MAKE LOGIC FOR GENERAL PERKS TO BE APPLIED
MAKE LOGIC FOR CONTINUE BUTTON

6-3 
Big start lol have to make a diciotrnary to apply perk logic
dictonairy complete as well as skeletons of methods, need to write actual functions

go back and edit ranks in skills to show a die value instead of a flat number and cap at 6 for a d12 value
For chasis perk make it so that every character actually has a list of Chasis'/ alt modes

TODO MAKE PAGE THAT WILL ACCEPT DATA FROM SERVEAL DIFFENT METHODS AND BUILD THE LIST ACCORDINGLYING

6-4

More mental day apparently have been working on this for 3 months
Thought about data I'm passing decided to just pass it as an object and check later
made the vm for checking data with its enums
started writing actual filter code.

6-5

light day made helper method for json deserizlization to save on space

6-6

Mental burnout made methods for vm but need a way to actually navigate to them from the perk page its a pain in the ass, made Perk page to take perkapplied for page .

ToDO make enums to figure out which are executable vs need userselections
build xaml

6-7 Thought about how to link general perk page to pages
Came up with an is slected prperty for checkbox
will have a list to cycle through.

TODO Make list and logic for Isslected and continue

made logic for naviagtion based off of perks selected
Fixed bug with lsit not showing up
Can actually navigate to new pages, need a way to set up page with data
TODO take data from datacontext and build page

6-8 Bit off more than I can chew
each special perk really does need its own page at this point didn't want to do it but fuck man, i can't figure out a way to do it any other way

In short keep it simple, stupid 

made naviagtion property and skeleton for perk pages, made Loadjson a globalmethod will work for mutiple games when added.

worked on the add aditonal altmode page, need to rething how to display data
TODO All the genral perk pages

6-11 

Almost want to belive I didn't take 3 days off

anyways feel refreshed learned that ! before as in !before is not inculde where after 1 as in before! means trust me I'm not null
which was messing up my binding and list asortment
changed origin to a list for the amm perk to work 
learned that if you have one thign as a data context you vand just use binding

TODO Format aam so that it looks nice and have it assign things as well with a continue button

6-12

made logic to switch pages but it doesn't work with continue button

todo fixnaviagiont in aam, make continue button nicer, and add scroller to type list

fixed naviation was not an issue with nav was actually me forgetting to assigned the picked perk list to  the character session

6-14

Made ATAM view model to put logic in, finished ATAM page with scroller and continue bar sytle,

More issues with collections, put in OnPoreprty changed to vm actually should be in model
Confusion on how data is fired going to work on xaml first to help me conciously think of workflow

TODO, make xaml for ATAMTF figure out bindings and then finish page, put on property changed to Origins model for checkbox slection

6-15 Made skeleton of ATAM page with its xaml 
now when I go to the vm I can see what I want to add or pull from it and that will help me not lose my mind

TODO: ADD Isslected property and InotifyChange to Origins
Find way to bind VM
Make continue button on atam work.

6-17

Big frustation day had to nutt up and learn 

State= what the system currently knows, ie values (in memory)

needed to swtich Checkbox and itemcontrol to Listbox
Listbox is built for selctiontions and I can bind the slected property
what INotifycation actually does: updates ui, basically even if interal data is differnet ie a number value being 5 it could still show as 3 in system

what I did today: changed bindings in xaml to new achetetuce in vm which uses obsberable collections and pulls the slelected origin as a refrence for data
made a method to update the movment types based off said data.


TODO TEST: RElax, remove isslected from the model make the add movment button work!

6-21

Crazy time has passed life was rough and work tiring

anyways finshed atam page by assigning values to the mode chosen think about making figure out what to do a method that can be called anywhere in the program.

6-22

All the exhaustion was the problem today was coding and felt good and none frustated

Learned to make helper vms to dispaly the data I actually need for the page ie don't do content control and add all these bools
For instance I needed the role name and the perks, so instead of filtering and filtering I made a CTHelper with the two data fields I needed hell yeah

TODO: MAKE XAML FOR THE CTPAGE AND THEN APPLY PERK

Update realized I forgot to actually make a way to select perk, made it so that I can with selected perk and selected CCTVM to get the list of perks

TODO: Convert navigation to method so I can call and easily update it for perks.

made a global Method to navigate to clean things up this will make it better to add the general perks from expansions etc. Still need to tweek numbers in the requirments
for gernal perks, also need to create a dictionary to show the values for dice instead of raw numbers with skills.
TODO: Next general perk


6-22 tried a light day to destresss

ignore the dates this is day last yesterdays was all over from 12am and stuff onwards or who knows
tried to get my dictionary to work and fucked up. so that blows problems with xaml

TODO fix character methods and display still maybe revert to  old version

6-23 

remade it didn't work did a clean and build and it did
wtf

anyways can move on to making minicons and human compaions

6-24

one step forward two steps back

Decided to make a child class called pet for minicons and human companions since they'll have the same stats makin a type checker for the pdf converter to disguise on build

recycled CharSocrepageVm because the process for building compaions is baiscally teh same
made the xaml page very fast because of this. 
Added skillscorepoints bank to track points spent, found out you can actually spend more than you're legally aloowed I believe

xaml fucked up on the colum formating somehow may just delete and fuck around with margins within the row instead.

TODO: READ STAT ALOOCATION RULES AND CHECK LOGIC, may need more associated skills like make it a list if two skills share a score will make things easier for mentor perk as well.

6-27 imposter syndrome day

Messed with fomatting still not right maybe the problem with grid 1 has nothing to do with the points bank stuff check refference page and
cut the points to see if the columns format right

need stoper for skills atm can spend more than you have need a check and balance.

ok its the afternoon now and not 3am coding

so big fix was to put limits on the skill score value in the try method, now it works fine,

still need to add a way to not reduce score below zero

the formating problem was a * in gridrow 0 didn't realize it meant take all the space avaiilbe lol

TOD0: add limit for skill score spend, finish the human companion mehtod


Did those two things

TODO: mentor skill Make the mentor skill page, Skill Score bank to score page as well

6/28

Made mentor page, add bool to score and skill to define if they're mentor or not
learned listbox doesn't need itemcontrol or stacpannel if the data is defiiend in the page
Realized I need a second allocation page after level 1.

TODO: MAKE NEXT PERK AND SHELL for over level 1 allocation page. 

6/29

worked on OOAm page for some reason listbox isn't loading,
TODO: need to fix origin benefit orign abilitiy

Update got Object alt mode page to work
Needed to refactor the orgins page, check spelling, change the Listbox to itemplate, change equals to contain

TODO: MAKE IT SO THAT CHOICES ON Orign launch a choose size method, make next trait page.

7/1

Made size change vm and xaml page finishing up continue button

error with selection also if you click mutilple origins in  the origin page they get added to your list SCvm page doen't load sizes probably because it has a binding.
fix and make coninue method 
.also sizes aren't showing up for the origns with no or.

check System.ArgumentOutOfRangeException: 'Index was out of range. Must be non-negative and less than the size of the collection. (Parameter 'index')'

7/2

looks like array is never assigned, index returns wrong

7/3 

found out the problem was a mismatched type in my array, fixed it and things work fine, made continue method general perks now done!,
made new pages for levels after first and working on vm
also learned the differences between refference and value types lol bit late but better late than never

TODO: work on vm for after level 1 

7/5

Added Level up after 1 page

TODO: Make general Perks without pages work.
Level pages layout is all fucked

7/5 morning
Much better results than the 3am coding
-Fixed perks they were applying but had no navigation method (sloppy sloppy)
- set properties in levelup to right rows looks great
-forgot to add Inotify for levelupvm after adding perks apply as they should

TODO:Make continue method

started final page vm

7-6 

Finsihed the skelton of the finalpage vm

TODO: Change Spcecializations to a list on the skills.
Figure out how to export the data to a pdf. also build a page

Made a helper vm or really the chucky vm finalpageview gets all the stats, FinalPageVM just holds 3 instances of FinalpageViewHelper.

TODO: write xaml for viewing the pages

7-8 Took a breather because I knew this would be a doosey

Tweeked logic for display realized I only need one verson of the character data, however I needed to have a index to track what data is avalible, made a method for switching the booleans and the like
however realized that the collapible stuff in the ui is set to the page so I shouldve put it there.

TODO: move you ui logic to page get rid of bools for show value etc. is better in the long run because it truely only exist as one thing

did the thing and ran the rest works like a [redacted] charm :)
noticed issue with availible perks to pick
Still need generalperkpoints in first level up

Normal idiocity forgot to set datacontex also return in my if statments so just did all the logic ie it would hit 2 then set itself back to zero. smh
changed it to a if else stamement.

7-12

Long Hiatus got gf also was called into work nonstop. 

Added more data to finalpage such as roles orgins and all mode, continue with information and am formating as I write

7-13

Added the skill score page. Nothing fancy, realized I can do the grid sytles to within the stackpannels so they will turn visible invisbe etc.

TODO ADD HANG UPS AND INFLUENCES, LIST GENERAL PERKS, LIST SUBCLASS, Reformate Role and subclass